By: David Karhi (dkarhi@gmail.com)


INTRODUCTION
-----------------------

This is a compiler for a programming language called C-. It utilizes a top-down recursive parser and generates SPIM assembly code. I wrote this as part of a course that I was taking on compilers and I have long since lost the original grammar for the language. When I find time, I'll try to reverse engineer the grammar.

The following files are needed to run the compiler and should be included:

   README          -   This is the file that you are reading
   makefile        -   This is the makefile for the compiler
   cm.cpp          -   This is the driver for the compiler
   tokenizer.h     -   This is the header file for the tokenizer class
   token.h         -   This is the header file for the token class
   parsenode.h     -   This is the header file for the ParseNode class
   parser.h        -   This is the header file for the Parse class
   entry.h         -   This is the header file for the Entry class 
   codegenerator.h -   This is the header file for the CodeGenerator class 


COMPILING
-----------------------

   In order to compile the compiler, type `make` from the directory
containing the necessary files. 


RUNNING
----------------------

   The compiler is executed by providing a single argument as a filename. 
For example, `cm input.cm` would run the compiler on the file input.cm. 
In order to remove the compiler, type `make clean`. This command removes the 
compiled executables and any other files created by the compiling process.

   If you want to run the compiler with debugging tokens, add a -d flag
after the input file. For example: 'parser input.cm -d'.


TOKENS
-----------------------

   The parser prints the tokens to the screen if debugging is enabled with
the -d flag. The tokens used are the following:

ERROR:    This token indicates that an error occurred, usually an
               unexpected character. A string is returned with this 
               token to help describe what the error was.

COMMA:    This token indicates that a comma (,) character was read.

ID:       This token indicates that an identifier was found. A string
               is returned with this token to describe the identifier.

NUM:      This token indicates that a number was found. A string is 
               returned with this token which represents the number.

LEQ:      This token indicates that a less-than-or-equal-to operator
               was found (<=).

IF:       This token indicates that the reserved word "if" was found.

WHILE:    This token indicates that the reserved word "while" was found.

ELSE:     This token indicates that the reserved word "else" was found.

INT:      This token indicates that the reserved word "int" was found.

RETURN:   This token indicates that the reserved word "return" was found.

VOID:     This token indicates that the reserved word "void" was found.

PLUS:     This token indicates that the character plus (+) was found.

MINUS:    This token indicates that the character minus (-) was found.

STAR:     This token indicates that the character star (*) was found.

DIV:      This token indicates that the character divide (/) was found.

LT:       This token indicates that a less-than operator (<) was found.

GT:       This token indicates that a greater-than operator (>) was 
             found.

GEQ:      This token indicates that a greater-than-or-equal-to operator
             (>=) was found.

EQ:       This token indicates that an equivalence operator (==) was 
             found.

NOTEQ:    This token indicates that a not-equal operator (!=) was 
          found.

ASSIGN:   This token indicates that an assignment operator (=) was 
             found.

LSQ:      This token indicates that a left square bracket ([) was found.

RSQ:      This token indicates that a right square bracket (]) was found.

LCURL:    This token indicates that a left curly brace ({) was found.

RCURL:    This token indicates that a right curly brace (}) was found.

LPAR:     This token indicates that a left parenthesis (() was found.

RPAR:     This token indicates that a right parenthesis ()) was found.

SEMIC:    This token indicates that a semi-colon (;) was found.

END:      This token indicates that the end-of-file character has been 
             found.


OUTPUT
-----------------------

   The output for the ID, NUM, and ERROR tokens all have strings output
with them in order to provide more details for each token. These 3 
tokens have an output of the form:

Token Name
Value String
Line Number
Position

   The output for the rest of the tokens does not include the value 
string. Their output is of the form:

Token Name
Line Number
Position


ERRORS
-----------------------

   The value string for error tokens takes one of three forms. If the 
scanner read an invalid character, then the invalid character is 
output as the value string. However, if there was a buffer overflow,
then the value string will be "Buffer" and the line number and position 
of the error token will tell you where the buffer overflow occurred. 
Please note that the maximum length of identifiers and number values is 
defined in token.h as STRINGSIZE and is set to 256. Finally, if the value
string is defined as "EOF" it means that the EOF token was reached 
unexpectedly while the scanner was looking for the end of a comment.

